docs/alternator/getting-started.md, before:

# Getting Started With ScyllaDB Alternator
---
## Installing Scylla
Before you can start using ScyllaDB Alternator, you will have to have an up
and running scylla cluster configured to expose the alternator port.
This section will guide you through the steps for setting up the cluster:
### Get Scylla with alternator support from a docker:
1. Because Alternator is still experimental and improves quickly, it is
   recommended to run the latest nightly build. Make sure you have the latest
   nightly image by running: `docker pull scylladb/scylla-nightly:latest`
2. Follow the steps in the [Scylla official download web page](https://www.scylladb.com/download/open-source/#docker)
   add to every "docker run" command: `-p 8000:8000` before the image name
   and `--alternator-port=8000 --alternator-write-isolation=always` at the end.
   The "alternator-port" option specifies on which port Scylla will listen for
   the (unencrypted) DynamoDB API, and the "alternator-write-isolation" chooses
   whether or not Alternator will use LWT for every write.
   For example,
   `docker run --name scylla -d -p 8000:8000 scylladb/scylla-nightly:latest --alternator-port=8000 --alternator-write-isolation=always

## Testing Scylla's DynamoDB API support:
### Running AWS Tic Tac Toe demo app to test the cluster:
1. Follow the instructions on the [AWS github page](https://github.com/awsdocs/amazon-dynamodb-developer-guide/blob/master/doc_source/TicTacToe.Phase1.md)
2. Enjoy your tic-tac-toe game :-)

### Setting up the python environment
Run the following commands on your machine, this will install boto3 python library
which also contains drivers for DynamoDB:

```
sudo pip install --upgrade boto3
```
### Runnning some simple scripts:
The following is a 3 scripts test that creates a table named _usertable_ writes the
famous hello world record to it, and then, reads it back.

1. Put the following **create table** example script in a python file and run it (changing local host
to the address of your docker node if you are using docker):
```python
import boto3
dynamodb = boto3.resource('dynamodb',endpoint_url='http://localhost:8000',
                  region_name='None', aws_access_key_id='None', aws_secret_access_key='None')

dynamodb.create_table(
    AttributeDefinitions=[
    {
        'AttributeName': 'key',
        'AttributeType': 'S'
    },
    ],
    BillingMode='PAY_PER_REQUEST',
    TableName='usertable',
    KeySchema=[
    {
        'AttributeName': 'key',
        'KeyType': 'HASH'
    },
    ])
```

2. Put the following **write** example script in a python file and run it (changing local host
to the address of your docker node if you are using docker):

```python
import boto3
dynamodb = boto3.resource('dynamodb',endpoint_url='http://localhost:8000',
                  region_name='None', aws_access_key_id='None', aws_secret_access_key='None')

dynamodb.batch_write_item(RequestItems={
    'usertable': [
        {
             'PutRequest': {
                 'Item': {
                     'key': 'test', 'x' : {'hello': 'world'}
                 }
             },
        }
    ]
})
```

3. Put the following **read** example script in a python file and run it (changing local host
to the address of your docker node if you are using docker):
```python
import boto3
dynamodb = boto3.resource('dynamodb',endpoint_url='http://localhost:8000',
                  region_name='None', aws_access_key_id='None', aws_secret_access_key='None')

print(dynamodb.batch_get_item(RequestItems={
    'usertable' : { 'Keys': [{ 'key': 'test' }] }
}))
```

You should see the record you inserted in step 2 along with some http info printed to screen.

Commit message:

docker: add option to start Alternator with HTTPS
We already have a docker image option to enable alternator on an unencrypted
port, "--alternator-port", but we forgot to also allow the similar option
for enabling alternator on an encrypted (HTTPS) port: "--alternator-https-port"
so this patch adds the missing option, and documents how to use it.

Note that using this option is not enough. When this option is used,
Alternator also requires two files, /etc/scylla/scylla.crt and
/etc/scylla/scylla.key, to be inserted into the image. These files should
contain the SSL certificate, and key, respectively. If these files are
missing, you will get an error in the log about the missing file.

Fixes #6583.

Signed-off-by: Nadav Har'El <nyh@scylladb.com>
Message-Id: <20200621125219.12274-1-nyh@scylladb.com>

docs/alternator/getting-started.md, after:

# Getting Started With ScyllaDB Alternator
---
## Installing Scylla
Before you can start using ScyllaDB Alternator, you will have to have an up
and running scylla cluster configured to expose the alternator port.
This section will guide you through the steps for setting up the cluster:
### Get Scylla with alternator support from a docker:
1. Because Alternator is still experimental and improves quickly, it is
   recommended to run the latest nightly build. Make sure you have the latest
   nightly image by running: `docker pull scylladb/scylla-nightly:latest`
2. Follow the steps in the [Scylla official download web page](https://www.scylladb.com/download/open-source/#docker)
   add to every "docker run" command: `-p 8000:8000` before the image name
   and `--alternator-port=8000 --alternator-write-isolation=always` at the end.
   The "alternator-port" option specifies on which port Scylla will listen for
   the (unencrypted) DynamoDB API, and the "alternator-write-isolation" chooses
   whether or not Alternator will use LWT for every write.
   For example,
   `docker run --name scylla -d -p 8000:8000 scylladb/scylla-nightly:latest --alternator-port=8000 --alternator-write-isolation=always
   The `--alternator-https-port=...` option can also be used to enable
   Alternator on an encrypted (HTTPS) port. Note that in this case, the files
   `/etc/scylla/scylla.crt` and `/etc/scylla/scylla.key` must be inserted into
   the image, containing the SSL certificate and key to use.

## Testing Scylla's DynamoDB API support:
### Running AWS Tic Tac Toe demo app to test the cluster:
1. Follow the instructions on the [AWS github page](https://github.com/awsdocs/amazon-dynamodb-developer-guide/blob/master/doc_source/TicTacToe.Phase1.md)
2. Enjoy your tic-tac-toe game :-)

### Setting up the python environment
Run the following commands on your machine, this will install boto3 python library
which also contains drivers for DynamoDB:

```
sudo pip install --upgrade boto3
```
### Runnning some simple scripts:
The following is a 3 scripts test that creates a table named _usertable_ writes the
famous hello world record to it, and then, reads it back.

1. Put the following **create table** example script in a python file and run it (changing local host
to the address of your docker node if you are using docker):
```python
import boto3
dynamodb = boto3.resource('dynamodb',endpoint_url='http://localhost:8000',
                  region_name='None', aws_access_key_id='None', aws_secret_access_key='None')

dynamodb.create_table(
    AttributeDefinitions=[
    {
        'AttributeName': 'key',
        'AttributeType': 'S'
    },
    ],
    BillingMode='PAY_PER_REQUEST',
    TableName='usertable',
    KeySchema=[
    {
        'AttributeName': 'key',
        'KeyType': 'HASH'
    },
    ])
```

2. Put the following **write** example script in a python file and run it (changing local host
to the address of your docker node if you are using docker):

```python
import boto3
dynamodb = boto3.resource('dynamodb',endpoint_url='http://localhost:8000',
                  region_name='None', aws_access_key_id='None', aws_secret_access_key='None')

dynamodb.batch_write_item(RequestItems={
    'usertable': [
        {
             'PutRequest': {
                 'Item': {
                     'key': 'test', 'x' : {'hello': 'world'}
                 }
             },
        }
    ]
})
```

3. Put the following **read** example script in a python file and run it (changing local host
to the address of your docker node if you are using docker):
```python
import boto3
dynamodb = boto3.resource('dynamodb',endpoint_url='http://localhost:8000',
                  region_name='None', aws_access_key_id='None', aws_secret_access_key='None')

print(dynamodb.batch_get_item(RequestItems={
    'usertable' : { 'Keys': [{ 'key': 'test' }] }
}))
```

You should see the record you inserted in step 2 along with some http info printed to screen.
