README.md, before:

# Scylla

## What is Scylla?

Scylla is the real-time big data database that is API-compatible with Apache Cassandra and Amazon DynamoDB.
Scylla embraces a shared-nothing approach that increases throughput and storage capacity to realize order-of-magnitude performance improvements and reduce hardware costs.

For more information, please see the [ScyllaDB web site].

[ScyllaDB web site]: https://www.scylladb.com

## Build Prerequisites

Scylla is fairly fussy about its build environment, requiring very recent
versions of the C++20 compiler and of many libraries to build. The document
[HACKING.md](HACKING.md) includes detailed information on building and
developing Scylla, but to get Scylla building quickly on (almost) any build
machine, Scylla offers a [frozen toolchain](tools/toolchain/README.md),
This is a pre-configured Docker image which includes recent versions of all
the required compilers, libraries and build tools. Using the frozen toolchain
allows you to avoid changing anything in your build machine to meet Scylla's
requirements - you just need to meet the frozen toolchain's prerequisites
(mostly, Docker or Podman being available).

## Building Scylla

Building Scylla with the frozen toolchain `dbuild` is as easy as:

```bash
$ git submodule update --init --force --recursive
$ ./tools/toolchain/dbuild ./configure.py
$ ./tools/toolchain/dbuild ninja build/release/scylla
```

For further information, please see:

* [Developer documentation] for more information on building Scylla.
* [Packaging documentation] on how to build Scylla packages for different Linux distributions.
* [Docker image build documentation] for information on how to build Docker images.

[developer documentation]: HACKING.md
[packaging documentation]: docs/building-packages.md
[docker image build documentation]: dist/docker/redhat/README.md

## Running Scylla

To start Scylla server, run:

```bash
$ ./tools/toolchain/dbuild ./build/release/scylla --workdir tmp --smp 1 --developer-mode 1
```

This will start a Scylla node with one CPU core allocated to it and data files stored in the `tmp` directory.
The `--developer-mode` is needed to disable the various checks Scylla performs at startup to ensure the machine is configured for maximum performance (not relevant on development workstations).
Please note that you need to run Scylla with `dbuild` if you built it with the frozen toolchain.

For more run options, run:

```bash
$ ./tools/toolchain/dbuild ./build/release/scylla --help
```

## Testing

See [test.py manual](docs/testing.md).

## Scylla APIs and compatibility
By default, Scylla is compatible with Apache Cassandra and its APIs - CQL and
Thrift. There is also support for the API of Amazon DynamoDB™,
which needs to be enabled and configured in order to be used. For more
information on how to enable the DynamoDB™ API in Scylla,
and the current compatibility of this feature as well as Scylla-specific extensions, see
[Alternator](docs/alternator/alternator.md) and
[Getting started with Alternator](docs/alternator/getting-started.md).

## Documentation

Documentation can be found in [./docs](./docs) and on the
[wiki](https://github.com/scylladb/scylla/wiki). There is currently no clear
definition of what goes where, so when looking for something be sure to check
both.
Seastar documentation can be found [here](http://docs.seastar.io/master/index.html).
User documentation can be found [here](https://docs.scylladb.com/).

## Training 

Training material and online courses can be found at [Scylla University](https://university.scylladb.com/). 
The courses are free, self-paced and include hands-on examples. They cover a variety of topics including Scylla data modeling, 
administration, architecture, basic NoSQL concepts, using drivers for application development, Scylla setup, failover, compactions, 
multi-datacenters and how Scylla integrates with third-party applications.

## Contributing to Scylla

[Hacking howto](HACKING.md)
[Guidelines for contributing](CONTRIBUTING.md)

## Contact

* The [users mailing list] and [Slack channel] are for users to discuss configuration, management, and operations of the ScyllaDB open source.
* The [developers mailing list] is for developers and people interested in following the development of ScyllaDB to discuss technical topics.

[Users mailing list]: https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/scylladb-users

[Slack channel]: http://slack.scylladb.com/

[Developers mailing list]: https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/scylladb-dev

Commit message:

README.md: Improve contribution section
The markdown syntax in the contribution section is incorrect, which is
why the links appear on the same line.

Improve the contribution section by making it more explicit what the
links are about.

Message-Id: <20200714070716.143768-1-penberg@scylladb.com>

README.md, after:

# Scylla

## What is Scylla?

Scylla is the real-time big data database that is API-compatible with Apache Cassandra and Amazon DynamoDB.
Scylla embraces a shared-nothing approach that increases throughput and storage capacity to realize order-of-magnitude performance improvements and reduce hardware costs.

For more information, please see the [ScyllaDB web site].

[ScyllaDB web site]: https://www.scylladb.com

## Build Prerequisites

Scylla is fairly fussy about its build environment, requiring very recent
versions of the C++20 compiler and of many libraries to build. The document
[HACKING.md](HACKING.md) includes detailed information on building and
developing Scylla, but to get Scylla building quickly on (almost) any build
machine, Scylla offers a [frozen toolchain](tools/toolchain/README.md),
This is a pre-configured Docker image which includes recent versions of all
the required compilers, libraries and build tools. Using the frozen toolchain
allows you to avoid changing anything in your build machine to meet Scylla's
requirements - you just need to meet the frozen toolchain's prerequisites
(mostly, Docker or Podman being available).

## Building Scylla

Building Scylla with the frozen toolchain `dbuild` is as easy as:

```bash
$ git submodule update --init --force --recursive
$ ./tools/toolchain/dbuild ./configure.py
$ ./tools/toolchain/dbuild ninja build/release/scylla
```

For further information, please see:

* [Developer documentation] for more information on building Scylla.
* [Packaging documentation] on how to build Scylla packages for different Linux distributions.
* [Docker image build documentation] for information on how to build Docker images.

[developer documentation]: HACKING.md
[packaging documentation]: docs/building-packages.md
[docker image build documentation]: dist/docker/redhat/README.md

## Running Scylla

To start Scylla server, run:

```bash
$ ./tools/toolchain/dbuild ./build/release/scylla --workdir tmp --smp 1 --developer-mode 1
```

This will start a Scylla node with one CPU core allocated to it and data files stored in the `tmp` directory.
The `--developer-mode` is needed to disable the various checks Scylla performs at startup to ensure the machine is configured for maximum performance (not relevant on development workstations).
Please note that you need to run Scylla with `dbuild` if you built it with the frozen toolchain.

For more run options, run:

```bash
$ ./tools/toolchain/dbuild ./build/release/scylla --help
```

## Testing

See [test.py manual](docs/testing.md).

## Scylla APIs and compatibility
By default, Scylla is compatible with Apache Cassandra and its APIs - CQL and
Thrift. There is also support for the API of Amazon DynamoDB™,
which needs to be enabled and configured in order to be used. For more
information on how to enable the DynamoDB™ API in Scylla,
and the current compatibility of this feature as well as Scylla-specific extensions, see
[Alternator](docs/alternator/alternator.md) and
[Getting started with Alternator](docs/alternator/getting-started.md).

## Documentation

Documentation can be found in [./docs](./docs) and on the
[wiki](https://github.com/scylladb/scylla/wiki). There is currently no clear
definition of what goes where, so when looking for something be sure to check
both.
Seastar documentation can be found [here](http://docs.seastar.io/master/index.html).
User documentation can be found [here](https://docs.scylladb.com/).

## Training 

Training material and online courses can be found at [Scylla University](https://university.scylladb.com/). 
The courses are free, self-paced and include hands-on examples. They cover a variety of topics including Scylla data modeling, 
administration, architecture, basic NoSQL concepts, using drivers for application development, Scylla setup, failover, compactions, 
multi-datacenters and how Scylla integrates with third-party applications.

## Contributing to Scylla

If you want to report a bug or submit a pull request or a patch, please read the [contribution guidelines].

If you are a developer working on Scylla, please read the [developer guidelines].

[contribution guidelines]: CONTRIBUTING.md
[developer guidelines]: HACKING.md

## Contact

* The [users mailing list] and [Slack channel] are for users to discuss configuration, management, and operations of the ScyllaDB open source.
* The [developers mailing list] is for developers and people interested in following the development of ScyllaDB to discuss technical topics.

[Users mailing list]: https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/scylladb-users

[Slack channel]: http://slack.scylladb.com/

[Developers mailing list]: https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/scylladb-dev
