docs/dev/topology-over-raft.md, before:

# Topology state machine

The topology state machine tracks all the nodes in a cluster,
their state, properties (topology, tokens, etc) and requested actions.

Node state can be one of those:
- `none`             - the new node joined group0 but did not bootstrapped yet (has no tokens and data to serve)
- `bootstrapping`    - the node is currently in the process of streaming its part of the ring
- `decommissioning`  - the node is being decommissioned and stream its data to nodes that took over
- `removing`         - the node is being removed and its data is streamed to nodes that took over from still alive owners
- `replacing`        - the node replaces another dead node in the cluster and it data is being streamed to it
- `rebuilding`       - the node is being rebuild and is streaming data from other replicas
- `normal`           - the node does not do any streaming and serves the slice of the ring that belongs to it
- `left`             - the node left the cluster and group0

Nodes in state left are never removed from the state.

State transition diagram for nodes:
```
{none} ------> {bootstrapping|replacing} ------> {normal} <---> {rebuilding}
 |                   |                              |
 |                   |                              |
 |                   V                              V
 ----------------> {left}  <--------  {decommissioning|removing}
```


A node state may have additional parameters associated with it. For instance
'replacing' state has host id of a node been replaced as a parameter.

Additionally to specific node states, there entire topology can also be in a transitioning state:

- `commit_cdc_generation` - a new CDC generation data was written to internal tables earlier
    and now we need to commit the generation - create a timestamp for it and tell every node
    to start using it for CDC log table writes.
- `write_both_read_old` - one of the nodes is in a bootstrapping/decommissioning/removing/replacing state.
    Writes are going to both new and old replicas (new replicas means calculated according to modified
token ring), reads are using old replicas.
- `write_both_read_new` - as above, but reads are using new replicas.

When a node bootstraps, we create new tokens for it and a new CDC generation
and enter the `commit_cdc_generation` state. Once the generation is committed,
we enter `write_both_read_old` state. After the entire cluster learns about it,
streaming starts. When streaming finishes, we move to `write_both_read_new`
state and again the whole cluster needs to learn about it and make sure that no
reads that started before this point exist in the system. Finally we remove the
transitioning state.

Decommission, removenode and replace work similarly, except they don't go through
`commit_cdc_generation`.

The state machine may also go only through the `commit_cdc_generation` state
after getting a request from the user to create a new CDC generation if the
current one is suboptimal (e.g. after a decommission).

Committed CDC generations are continually published to user-facing description
tables. This process is concurrent with the topology state transitioning and
does not block its further progress.

The state machine also maintains a map of topology requests per node.
When a request is issued to a node the entry is added to the map. A
request is one of the topology operation currently supported: `join`,
`leave`, `replace`, `remove` and `rebuild`. A request may also have parameters
associated with it which are also stored in a separate map.

Note that some nodes may require work but the topology as a whole does not
transition. An example of this is the `rebuilding` state which does not change
the topology but requires streaming data.

Separately from the per-node requests, there is also a 'global' request field
for operations that don't affect any specific node but the entire cluster,
such as `check_and_repair_cdc_streams`.

# Load balancing

If there is no work for the state machine, tablet load balancer is invoked to
check if we need to rebalance. If so, it computes an incremental tablet migration
plan, persists it by moving tablets into transitional states, and moves the state machine
into the tablet migration track. All this happens atomically from the perspective
of group0 state machine.

The tablet migration track also invokes the load balancer and starts new migrations
to keep the cluster saturated with streaming. The load balancer is invoked
on transition of tablet stages, and also continuously as long as it generates
new migrations.

If there is a pending topology change request during tablet migration track,
the load balancer will not be invoked to allow for current migrations to drain,
after which the state machine will exit the tablet migration track and allow pending topology
operation to start.

The tablet migration track excludes with other topology changes, so node operations
will have to wait for tablet migration track to finish before they can take over
the state machine.

The reason why the load balancer is part of the main state machine and excludes with other topology
changes is that we want to share the infrastructure for fencing between vnode-based topology
changes and tablet migration. This calls for some way to mutually exclude the two so that they
don't interfere with each other. The simplest is to make them part of the same state machine.

When the topology state machine is not in the tablet_migration track, it is guaranteed
that there are no tablet transitions in the system.

Tablets are migrated in parallel and independently.

There is a variant of tablet migration track called tablet draining track, which is invoked
as a step of certain topology operations (e.g. decommission). Its goal is to readjust tablet replicas
so that a given topology change can proceed. For example, when decommissioning a node, we
need to migrate tablet replicas away from the node being decommissioned.
Tablet draining happens before making changes to vnode-based replication.

# Tablet migration

Each tablet has its own migration state machine stored in group0 which is part of the tablet state. It involves
these properties of a tablet:
  - replicas: the old replicas of a table
  - new_replicas: the new replicas of a tablet
  - stage: determines which replicas should be used by requests on the coordinator side, and which
           action should be taken by the state machine executor.

Currently, the tablet state machine is driven forward by the tablet migration track of the
topology state machine.

The "stage" serves two major purposes:

1. Firstly, it determines which action should be taken by the topology change coordinator on behalf
   of the tablet before it can move to the next step. When stage is advanced, it means that
   expected invariants about cluster-wide state relevant to the tablet, associated with the next stage, hold.

2. Also, stage affects which replicas are used by the coordinator for reads and writes.
   Replica selectors are stored in tablet_transition_info::writes and tablet_transition_info::reads,
   which are directly derived from the stage stored in system tables.

The invariants of stages, which hold as soon as the stage is committed to group0:

1. allow_write_both_read_old

    Precondition: transition info in group0 is filled with information about migration.

2. write_both_read_old

    Precondition: All old and new replicas:

    1. see the transition info from step 1 via local token metadata and effective replication maps.

    2. are prepared for receiving writes for the local tablet replica.

3. streaming

    Precondition: All writes that will be stored by any replica in the old or the new set,
    which are executed on behalf of a successful request, will reach CL in both old and new replica sets.
    This ensures that when step 4 is reached, the new replica set will reflect all successful writes
    either by the means of coordinator replication or by the means of streaming.

4. write_both_read_new

    Precondition: New tablet replicas contain all the writes which reached the matching leaving tablet replicas
    before step 3.

5. use_new

    Precondition: All read requests started after this, and which complete successfully, use the new replica set.

6. cleanup

    Precondition: No write request will reach tablet replica in the database layer which does not belong to the new replica set.

When tablet is not in transition, the following invariants hold:

1. The storage layer (database) on any node contains writes for keys which belong to the tablet only if
    that shard is one of the current tablet replicas.

# Topology guards

In addition to synchronizing with data access operations (e.g. CQL requests), we need to synchronize with
operations started by the topology change coordinator like streaming, repair, etc.
Those are distributed operations which involve several nodes.

The goal of tracking such operations is to make sure that they don’t have any side-effects beyond the
topology change process (e.g. tablet migration) they were started in. This invariant is the basis for
reasoning about correctness. For example, if streaming which started in migration X runs concurrently
with later repair migration Y of the same tablet, we can run into consistency issues,
e.g. old streaming can resurrect deleted data.

Example scenario:

    1. Tablet T has replicas {A, B, C}
    2. Write (w1) of key K1 is replicated everywhere
    3. Start migration of tablet T replica from A to D
    4. Migration fails, but leaves behind an async part (s1) which later sends w1 to D
    5. Migration is retried and completes
    6. Write (w2) of Key K1 which deletes the key is replicated everywhere {D, B, C}
    7. Tablet T is repaired
    8. Tombstone for w2 is garbage-collected on D
    9. s1 is applied to D, and resurrects K1 (bad!)

For tablets, the time window of those migrations is much smaller than with vnodes, because tablet migrations
are started automatically and tablets themselves are smaller so operations complete faster.

We don't want to use tracking by effective_replication_map_ptr for streaming, because we want to allow
unrelated migrations to start concurrently with streaming of some tablet. Using effective_replication_map_ptr
precludes that because it blocks the global token metadata barrier, so the tablet state machine would not be
able to make progress.

The solution is to use a tracking mechanism called topology guards, which is built on top of the concept of
"sessions" managed in group0.

Each topology operation runs under a unique global session, identified by UUID. Session life cycle is controlled by
the topology change coordinator, and part of the group0 state machine. For example, for streaming, session is created
when entering the "streaming" stage, and cleared when entering the next stage. Each stage which needs a session gets
its own unique session id assigned by the topology change coordinator. For tablets, session id is stored with
a given tablet in tablet_transition_info. Retried operations running within the same stage use the same session.

When topology operation starts, it picks up the current session id from group0 (e.g. tablet_transition_info::session)
and keeps it in the object called frozen_topology_guard. This object acts as a permit which identifies the scope of the operation.
It is propagated everywhere where the operation may have side effects. It must be materialized into a topology_guard object around
sections which do have side effects. Materialization will succeed only if the session is still open. If it succeeds,
the topology_guard will keep the session guard alive, which is tracked under the local session object.

When topology change coordinator moves to the next stage, it clears the session in group0. The next stage will
execute a global token metadata barrier, which does two things: (1) executes a raft read barrier and (2) waits
for all guards created under no longer open sessions to be released. Doing (1) ensures that the local node
sees that the session should be closed. The local state machine will initiate close on all sessions which are
no longer present in group0. Doing (2) ensures that any operation started under no longer open sessions is finished.
So executing a global token metadata barrier ensures that only operations started under still open sessions are running
or can start later. Stale RPCs which carry the permit of an already closed session will be rejected after the barrier
when they try to materialize the permit into topology_guard.

Because sessions are managed in group0, there is no room for races between topology change coordinator's decisions
about sessions and actual state of sessions on each node. Each node follows the group0 history, and will arrive at the same view
about sessions. Also, stale topology coordinators cannot close or create sessions and mess with the intent of the new coordinator.

Because each tablet uses its own unique session, the global token metadata barrier is not blocked by active streaming.

VNode-based operations also use this mechanism, but they use a single session for the whole topology, as they don't
need any parallelism.

# Topology state persistence table

The in memory state's machine state is persisted in a local table `system.topology`.
The schema of the table is:
```
CREATE TABLE system.topology (
    key text,
    host_id uuid,
    datacenter text,
    ignore_msb int,
    node_state text,
    num_tokens int,
    rack text,
    rebuild_option text,
    release_version text,
    replaced_id uuid,
    ignore_nodes set<uuid>,
    shard_count int,
    tokens set<text>,
    topology_request text,
    transition_state text static,
    current_cdc_generation_timestamp timestamp static,
    current_cdc_generation_uuid timeuuid static,
    unpublished_cdc_generations set<tuple<timestamp, timeuuid>> static,
    global_topology_request text static,
    new_cdc_generation_data_uuid timeuuid static,
    PRIMARY KEY (key, host_id)
)
```
This is a single-partition table, with `key = 'topology'`.

Each node has a clustering row in the table where its `host_id` is the clustering key. The row contains:
- `host_id`            -  id of the node
- `datacenter`         -  a name of the datacenter the node belongs to
- `rack`               -  a name of the rack the node belongs to
- `ignore_msb`         -  the value of the node's `murmur3_partitioner_ignore_msb_bits` parameter
- `shard_count`        -  the node's `smp::count`
- `release_version`    -  the node's `version::current()` (corresponding to a Cassandra version, used by drivers)
- `node_state`         -  current state of the node (as described earlier)
- `topology_request`   -  if set contains one of the supported node-specific topology requests
- `tokens`             -  if set contains a list of tokens that belongs to the node
- `replaced_id`        -  if the node replacing or replaced another node here will be the id of that node
- `ignore_nodes`       -  if set contains a list of ids of nodes ignored during the remove or replace operation
- `rebuild_option`     -  if the node is being rebuild contains datacenter name that is used as a rebuild source
- `num_tokens`         -  the requested number of tokens when the node bootstraps

There are also a few static columns for cluster-global properties:
- `transition_state` - the transitioning state of the cluster (as described earlier), may be null
- `current_cdc_generation_timestamp` - the timestamp of the last introduced CDC generation
- `current_cdc_generation_uuid` - the time UUID of the last introduced CDC generation (used to access its data)
- `unpublished_cdc_generations` - the IDs of the committed yet unpublished CDC generations
- `global_topology_request` - if set, contains one of the supported global topology requests
- `new_cdc_generation_data_uuid` - used in `commit_cdc_generation` state, the time UUID of the generation to be committed

# Join procedure

In topology on raft mode, new nodes need to go through a new handshake procedure
before they can join the cluster, including joining group 0. The handshake
happens during raft discovery and replaced the old `GROUP0_MODIFY_CONFIG`.

Two RPC verbs are introduced:

- `JOIN_NODE_REQUEST`
  Sent by the node that wishes to join the cluster. It contains some basic
  information about the node that will have to be verified. Some of them
  can be verified by the node that receives the RPC - which can result in
  an immediate failure of the RPC -  but others need to be verified
  by the topology coordinator.

- `JOIN_NODE_RESPONSE`
  Sent by the topology coordinator back to the joining node. It contains
  coordinator's decision about the node - whether the request was accepted
  or rejected.

The procedure is not retryable. If the joining node crashes before finishing it,
it might get rejected after restart. In order to retry adding the node, the data
directory must be deleted first.

*The procedure*

If the node didn't join group 0, it sends `JOIN_NODE_REQUEST` to any existing
node in the cluster. The receiving node can either:
- Accept the request and tell the new node to wait for `JOIN_NODE_RESPONSE`.
- Reject the request. This can happen if:
  - The request does not satisfy some validity checks done by the receiving node
    (e.g. cluster name does not match),
  - There already is an existing request to join this node (which can happen if
    the node crashed during the previous attempt to join),
  - The node is already a part of the cluster,
  - The node was removed from the cluster.

The new node should not process `JOIN_NODE_RESPONSE` RPC until it is explicitly
ordered by node that handles `JOIN_NODE_REQUEST`. This is necessary so that
it doesn't accidentally process a join response from a previous attempt, if
there was any. Similarly, the group 0 server must not be started on the new node
until the `JOIN_NODE_REQUEST` RPC succeeds, otherwise, if it crashes during
the prodecude and disables some features before restart it might receive some
commands it is not prepared to understand.

The topology coordinator will read the request from `system.topology`. It will
perform additional verification that couldn't be done by the recipient
of `JOIN_NODE_REQUEST` (e.g. check whether the node supports all cluster
features). Then:
- If verification was successful, the node will be transitioned to `join_group0`
  state, then added to group 0 and `JOIN_NODE_RESPONSE` will be sent by
  the topology coordinator. Afterwards, the usual bootstrap/replace procedure
  continues.
- If verification was unsuccessful, topology coordinator will move the node
  to `left` state and then send a `JOIN_NODE_RESPONSE` to the joining node,
  rejecting it. 

In case of failures like timeouts, connection issues, etc., the topology
coordinator keeps retrying. Eventually, it can give up and just move the new
node to the `left` state, either due to a timeout or an operator intervention,
but this is not implemented yet.

Commit message:

tablets: Store transition kind per tablet
Will be used to distinguish regular migration from rebuild, repair and
RF change.

docs/dev/topology-over-raft.md, after:

# Topology state machine

The topology state machine tracks all the nodes in a cluster,
their state, properties (topology, tokens, etc) and requested actions.

Node state can be one of those:
- `none`             - the new node joined group0 but did not bootstrapped yet (has no tokens and data to serve)
- `bootstrapping`    - the node is currently in the process of streaming its part of the ring
- `decommissioning`  - the node is being decommissioned and stream its data to nodes that took over
- `removing`         - the node is being removed and its data is streamed to nodes that took over from still alive owners
- `replacing`        - the node replaces another dead node in the cluster and it data is being streamed to it
- `rebuilding`       - the node is being rebuild and is streaming data from other replicas
- `normal`           - the node does not do any streaming and serves the slice of the ring that belongs to it
- `left`             - the node left the cluster and group0

Nodes in state left are never removed from the state.

State transition diagram for nodes:
```
{none} ------> {bootstrapping|replacing} ------> {normal} <---> {rebuilding}
 |                   |                              |
 |                   |                              |
 |                   V                              V
 ----------------> {left}  <--------  {decommissioning|removing}
```


A node state may have additional parameters associated with it. For instance
'replacing' state has host id of a node been replaced as a parameter.

Additionally to specific node states, there entire topology can also be in a transitioning state:

- `commit_cdc_generation` - a new CDC generation data was written to internal tables earlier
    and now we need to commit the generation - create a timestamp for it and tell every node
    to start using it for CDC log table writes.
- `write_both_read_old` - one of the nodes is in a bootstrapping/decommissioning/removing/replacing state.
    Writes are going to both new and old replicas (new replicas means calculated according to modified
token ring), reads are using old replicas.
- `write_both_read_new` - as above, but reads are using new replicas.

When a node bootstraps, we create new tokens for it and a new CDC generation
and enter the `commit_cdc_generation` state. Once the generation is committed,
we enter `write_both_read_old` state. After the entire cluster learns about it,
streaming starts. When streaming finishes, we move to `write_both_read_new`
state and again the whole cluster needs to learn about it and make sure that no
reads that started before this point exist in the system. Finally we remove the
transitioning state.

Decommission, removenode and replace work similarly, except they don't go through
`commit_cdc_generation`.

The state machine may also go only through the `commit_cdc_generation` state
after getting a request from the user to create a new CDC generation if the
current one is suboptimal (e.g. after a decommission).

Committed CDC generations are continually published to user-facing description
tables. This process is concurrent with the topology state transitioning and
does not block its further progress.

The state machine also maintains a map of topology requests per node.
When a request is issued to a node the entry is added to the map. A
request is one of the topology operation currently supported: `join`,
`leave`, `replace`, `remove` and `rebuild`. A request may also have parameters
associated with it which are also stored in a separate map.

Note that some nodes may require work but the topology as a whole does not
transition. An example of this is the `rebuilding` state which does not change
the topology but requires streaming data.

Separately from the per-node requests, there is also a 'global' request field
for operations that don't affect any specific node but the entire cluster,
such as `check_and_repair_cdc_streams`.

# Load balancing

If there is no work for the state machine, tablet load balancer is invoked to
check if we need to rebalance. If so, it computes an incremental tablet migration
plan, persists it by moving tablets into transitional states, and moves the state machine
into the tablet migration track. All this happens atomically from the perspective
of group0 state machine.

The tablet migration track also invokes the load balancer and starts new migrations
to keep the cluster saturated with streaming. The load balancer is invoked
on transition of tablet stages, and also continuously as long as it generates
new migrations.

If there is a pending topology change request during tablet migration track,
the load balancer will not be invoked to allow for current migrations to drain,
after which the state machine will exit the tablet migration track and allow pending topology
operation to start.

The tablet migration track excludes with other topology changes, so node operations
will have to wait for tablet migration track to finish before they can take over
the state machine.

The reason why the load balancer is part of the main state machine and excludes with other topology
changes is that we want to share the infrastructure for fencing between vnode-based topology
changes and tablet migration. This calls for some way to mutually exclude the two so that they
don't interfere with each other. The simplest is to make them part of the same state machine.

When the topology state machine is not in the tablet_migration track, it is guaranteed
that there are no tablet transitions in the system.

Tablets are migrated in parallel and independently.

There is a variant of tablet migration track called tablet draining track, which is invoked
as a step of certain topology operations (e.g. decommission, removenode, replace). Its goal is to readjust tablet replicas
so that a given topology change can proceed. For example, when decommissioning a node, we
need to migrate tablet replicas away from the node being decommissioned.
Tablet draining happens before making changes to vnode-based replication.

# Tablet transitions

Tablets can undergo a process called "transition", which performs some maintenance action on the tablet which is
globally driven by the topology change coordinator and serialized per-tablet. Transition can be one of:

 * migration - tablet replica is moved from one shard to another (possibly on a different node)

 * rebuild - new tablet replica is rebuilt from existing ones, possibly dropping old replica afterwards (on node removal or replace)

Each tablet has its own state machine for keeping state of transition stored in group0 which is part of the tablet state. It involves
these properties of a tablet:
  - replicas: the old replicas of a table (also set when not in transition)
  - new_replicas: the new replicas of a tablet which will become current after transition
  - stage: determines which replicas should be used by requests on the coordinator side, and which
           action should be taken by the state machine executor.
  - transition: the kind of tablet transition (migration, rebuild, etc.). Affects the behavior of stages and actions
    performed in those stages.

Currently, the tablet state machine is driven forward by the tablet migration track of the
topology state machine.

The "stage" serves two major purposes:

1. Firstly, it determines which action should be taken by the topology change coordinator on behalf
   of the tablet before it can move to the next step. When stage is advanced, it means that
   expected invariants about cluster-wide state relevant to the tablet, associated with the next stage, hold.

2. Also, stage affects which replicas are used by the coordinator for reads and writes.
   Replica selectors are stored in tablet_transition_info::writes and tablet_transition_info::reads,
   which are directly derived from the stage stored in system tables.

The invariants of stages, which hold as soon as the stage is committed to group0:

1. allow_write_both_read_old

    Precondition: transition info in group0 is filled with information about migration.

2. write_both_read_old

    Precondition: All old and new replicas:

    1. see the transition info from step 1 via local token metadata and effective replication maps.

    2. are prepared for receiving writes for the local tablet replica.

3. streaming

    Precondition: All writes that will be stored by any replica in the old or the new set,
    which are executed on behalf of a successful request, will reach CL in both old and new replica sets.
    This ensures that when step 4 is reached, the new replica set will reflect all successful writes
    either by the means of coordinator replication or by the means of streaming.

4. write_both_read_new

    Precondition: New tablet replicas contain all the writes which reached the matching leaving tablet replicas
    before step 3.

5. use_new

    Precondition: All read requests started after this, and which complete successfully, use the new replica set.

6. cleanup

    Precondition: No write request will reach tablet replica in the database layer which does not belong to the new replica set.

When tablet is not in transition, the following invariants hold:

1. The storage layer (database) on any node contains writes for keys which belong to the tablet only if
    that shard is one of the current tablet replicas.

# Topology guards

In addition to synchronizing with data access operations (e.g. CQL requests), we need to synchronize with
operations started by the topology change coordinator like streaming, repair, etc.
Those are distributed operations which involve several nodes.

The goal of tracking such operations is to make sure that they don’t have any side-effects beyond the
topology change process (e.g. tablet migration) they were started in. This invariant is the basis for
reasoning about correctness. For example, if streaming which started in migration X runs concurrently
with later repair migration Y of the same tablet, we can run into consistency issues,
e.g. old streaming can resurrect deleted data.

Example scenario:

    1. Tablet T has replicas {A, B, C}
    2. Write (w1) of key K1 is replicated everywhere
    3. Start migration of tablet T replica from A to D
    4. Migration fails, but leaves behind an async part (s1) which later sends w1 to D
    5. Migration is retried and completes
    6. Write (w2) of Key K1 which deletes the key is replicated everywhere {D, B, C}
    7. Tablet T is repaired
    8. Tombstone for w2 is garbage-collected on D
    9. s1 is applied to D, and resurrects K1 (bad!)

For tablets, the time window of those migrations is much smaller than with vnodes, because tablet migrations
are started automatically and tablets themselves are smaller so operations complete faster.

We don't want to use tracking by effective_replication_map_ptr for streaming, because we want to allow
unrelated migrations to start concurrently with streaming of some tablet. Using effective_replication_map_ptr
precludes that because it blocks the global token metadata barrier, so the tablet state machine would not be
able to make progress.

The solution is to use a tracking mechanism called topology guards, which is built on top of the concept of
"sessions" managed in group0.

Each topology operation runs under a unique global session, identified by UUID. Session life cycle is controlled by
the topology change coordinator, and part of the group0 state machine. For example, for streaming, session is created
when entering the "streaming" stage, and cleared when entering the next stage. Each stage which needs a session gets
its own unique session id assigned by the topology change coordinator. For tablets, session id is stored with
a given tablet in tablet_transition_info. Retried operations running within the same stage use the same session.

When topology operation starts, it picks up the current session id from group0 (e.g. tablet_transition_info::session)
and keeps it in the object called frozen_topology_guard. This object acts as a permit which identifies the scope of the operation.
It is propagated everywhere where the operation may have side effects. It must be materialized into a topology_guard object around
sections which do have side effects. Materialization will succeed only if the session is still open. If it succeeds,
the topology_guard will keep the session guard alive, which is tracked under the local session object.

When topology change coordinator moves to the next stage, it clears the session in group0. The next stage will
execute a global token metadata barrier, which does two things: (1) executes a raft read barrier and (2) waits
for all guards created under no longer open sessions to be released. Doing (1) ensures that the local node
sees that the session should be closed. The local state machine will initiate close on all sessions which are
no longer present in group0. Doing (2) ensures that any operation started under no longer open sessions is finished.
So executing a global token metadata barrier ensures that only operations started under still open sessions are running
or can start later. Stale RPCs which carry the permit of an already closed session will be rejected after the barrier
when they try to materialize the permit into topology_guard.

Because sessions are managed in group0, there is no room for races between topology change coordinator's decisions
about sessions and actual state of sessions on each node. Each node follows the group0 history, and will arrive at the same view
about sessions. Also, stale topology coordinators cannot close or create sessions and mess with the intent of the new coordinator.

Because each tablet uses its own unique session, the global token metadata barrier is not blocked by active streaming.

VNode-based operations also use this mechanism, but they use a single session for the whole topology, as they don't
need any parallelism.

# Topology state persistence table

The in memory state's machine state is persisted in a local table `system.topology`.
The schema of the table is:
```
CREATE TABLE system.topology (
    key text,
    host_id uuid,
    datacenter text,
    ignore_msb int,
    node_state text,
    num_tokens int,
    rack text,
    rebuild_option text,
    release_version text,
    replaced_id uuid,
    ignore_nodes set<uuid>,
    shard_count int,
    tokens set<text>,
    topology_request text,
    transition_state text static,
    current_cdc_generation_timestamp timestamp static,
    current_cdc_generation_uuid timeuuid static,
    unpublished_cdc_generations set<tuple<timestamp, timeuuid>> static,
    global_topology_request text static,
    new_cdc_generation_data_uuid timeuuid static,
    PRIMARY KEY (key, host_id)
)
```
This is a single-partition table, with `key = 'topology'`.

Each node has a clustering row in the table where its `host_id` is the clustering key. The row contains:
- `host_id`            -  id of the node
- `datacenter`         -  a name of the datacenter the node belongs to
- `rack`               -  a name of the rack the node belongs to
- `ignore_msb`         -  the value of the node's `murmur3_partitioner_ignore_msb_bits` parameter
- `shard_count`        -  the node's `smp::count`
- `release_version`    -  the node's `version::current()` (corresponding to a Cassandra version, used by drivers)
- `node_state`         -  current state of the node (as described earlier)
- `topology_request`   -  if set contains one of the supported node-specific topology requests
- `tokens`             -  if set contains a list of tokens that belongs to the node
- `replaced_id`        -  if the node replacing or replaced another node here will be the id of that node
- `ignore_nodes`       -  if set contains a list of ids of nodes ignored during the remove or replace operation
- `rebuild_option`     -  if the node is being rebuild contains datacenter name that is used as a rebuild source
- `num_tokens`         -  the requested number of tokens when the node bootstraps

There are also a few static columns for cluster-global properties:
- `transition_state` - the transitioning state of the cluster (as described earlier), may be null
- `current_cdc_generation_timestamp` - the timestamp of the last introduced CDC generation
- `current_cdc_generation_uuid` - the time UUID of the last introduced CDC generation (used to access its data)
- `unpublished_cdc_generations` - the IDs of the committed yet unpublished CDC generations
- `global_topology_request` - if set, contains one of the supported global topology requests
- `new_cdc_generation_data_uuid` - used in `commit_cdc_generation` state, the time UUID of the generation to be committed

# Join procedure

In topology on raft mode, new nodes need to go through a new handshake procedure
before they can join the cluster, including joining group 0. The handshake
happens during raft discovery and replaced the old `GROUP0_MODIFY_CONFIG`.

Two RPC verbs are introduced:

- `JOIN_NODE_REQUEST`
  Sent by the node that wishes to join the cluster. It contains some basic
  information about the node that will have to be verified. Some of them
  can be verified by the node that receives the RPC - which can result in
  an immediate failure of the RPC -  but others need to be verified
  by the topology coordinator.

- `JOIN_NODE_RESPONSE`
  Sent by the topology coordinator back to the joining node. It contains
  coordinator's decision about the node - whether the request was accepted
  or rejected.

The procedure is not retryable. If the joining node crashes before finishing it,
it might get rejected after restart. In order to retry adding the node, the data
directory must be deleted first.

*The procedure*

If the node didn't join group 0, it sends `JOIN_NODE_REQUEST` to any existing
node in the cluster. The receiving node can either:
- Accept the request and tell the new node to wait for `JOIN_NODE_RESPONSE`.
- Reject the request. This can happen if:
  - The request does not satisfy some validity checks done by the receiving node
    (e.g. cluster name does not match),
  - There already is an existing request to join this node (which can happen if
    the node crashed during the previous attempt to join),
  - The node is already a part of the cluster,
  - The node was removed from the cluster.

The new node should not process `JOIN_NODE_RESPONSE` RPC until it is explicitly
ordered by node that handles `JOIN_NODE_REQUEST`. This is necessary so that
it doesn't accidentally process a join response from a previous attempt, if
there was any. Similarly, the group 0 server must not be started on the new node
until the `JOIN_NODE_REQUEST` RPC succeeds, otherwise, if it crashes during
the prodecude and disables some features before restart it might receive some
commands it is not prepared to understand.

The topology coordinator will read the request from `system.topology`. It will
perform additional verification that couldn't be done by the recipient
of `JOIN_NODE_REQUEST` (e.g. check whether the node supports all cluster
features). Then:
- If verification was successful, the node will be transitioned to `join_group0`
  state, then added to group 0 and `JOIN_NODE_RESPONSE` will be sent by
  the topology coordinator. Afterwards, the usual bootstrap/replace procedure
  continues.
- If verification was unsuccessful, topology coordinator will move the node
  to `left` state and then send a `JOIN_NODE_RESPONSE` to the joining node,
  rejecting it. 

In case of failures like timeouts, connection issues, etc., the topology
coordinator keeps retrying. Eventually, it can give up and just move the new
node to the `left` state, either due to a timeout or an operator intervention,
but this is not implemented yet.
