docs/operating-scylla/procedures/backup-restore/restore.rst, before:

Restore from a Backup and Incremental Backup
********************************************

Restoring a keyspace from a backup requires all snapshot files of the tables, and (if available) incremental backup files taken after the snapshot. Before restoring from backup, the table data must be truncated, making sure that the existing data does not overwrite the restored data.

.. include:: _common/manager.rst


.. note::

   The following procedure assumes data is restored to the same cluster that was backed-up:

   - same number of nodes
   - same token range per node

   The procedure restores each node using the backup file of the **same node**.
   If this is not the case, one should use other restoration methods tools like :doc:`sstableloader </operating-scylla/procedures/cassandra-to-scylla-migration-process/>`. This procedure is much slower than restoring to the same topology cluster.

.. _restore-procedure:

---------
Procedure
---------

| From **one** of the nodes, recreate the schema.

``cqlsh -e "SOURCE '/path_to_schema/<schema_name.cql>'"``

| For example:

``cqlsh -e "SOURCE 'centos/db_schema.cql'"``

Repeat the following steps for each node in the cluster:
--------------------------------------------------------

.. note::

      Best practise is **not** to restore :doc:`Materialized Views (MV) </using-scylla/materialized-views>` and :doc:`Secondary Indexes (SI) </using-scylla/secondary-indexes>` SSTables.
      It is recommended to:

      - Drop the MV and SI using `DROP MATERIALIZED VIEW` or `DROP INDEX`
      - Restore the base table only (see below)
      - Recreate the  MV or SI, using the original description from the CQL backup, using `CREATE MATERIALIZED VIEW` or `CREATE INDEX`
   

#. Run the :doc:`nodetool drain </operating-scylla/nodetool-commands/drain/>` command to ensure the data is flushed to the SSTables

#. Shut down the node

   .. include:: /rst_include/scylla-commands-stop-index.rst

#. Delete all the files in the commitlog. Deleting the commitlog will prevent the newer insert from overriding the restored data.

   ``sudo rm -rf /var/lib/scylla/commitlog/*``

#. Delete all the files in the keyspace_name_table. Note that by default the snapshots are created under Scylla data directory ``/var/lib/scylla/data/keyspace_name/table_name-UUID/``.

   Make sure NOT to delete the existing snapshots in the process.

   For example:

   .. code-block:: shell

      sudo ll /var/lib/scylla/data/mykeyspace/team_players-6e856600017f11e790f4000000000000

      -rw-r--r-- 1 scylla   scylla     66 Mar  5 09:19 nba-team_players-ka-1-CompressionInfo.db
      -rw-r--r-- 1 scylla   scylla    669 Mar  5 09:19 nba-team_players-ka-1-Data.db
      -rw-r--r-- 4 scylla   scylla     10 Mar  5 08:46 nba-team_players-ka-1-Digest.sha1
      -rw-r--r-- 1 scylla   scylla     24 Mar  5 09:19 nba-team_players-ka-1-Filter.db
      -rw-r--r-- 1 scylla   scylla    218 Mar  5 09:19 nba-team_players-ka-1-Index.db
      -rw-r--r-- 1 scylla   scylla     38 Mar  5 09:19 nba-team_players-ka-1-Scylla.db
      -rw-r--r-- 1 scylla   scylla   4446 Mar  5 09:19 nba-team_players-ka-1-Statistics.db
      -rw-r--r-- 1 scylla   scylla     89 Mar  5 09:19 nba-team_players-ka-1-Summary.db
      -rw-r--r-- 4 scylla   scylla    101 Mar  5 08:46 nba-team_players-ka-1-TOC.txt
      drwx------ 5 scylla   scylla     69 Mar  6 08:14 snapshots
      drwx------ 2 scylla   scylla      6 Mar  5 08:40 upload

      sudo rm -f  /var/lib/scylla/data/mykeyspace/team_players-6e856600017f11e790f4000000000000/*

      rm: cannot remove ‘/var/lib/scylla/data/nba/team_roster-c019f8108fda11e8b16a000000000001/snapshots’: Is a directory
      rm: cannot remove ‘/var/lib/scylla/data/nba/team_roster-c019f8108fda11e8b16a000000000001/upload’: Is a directory

      sudo ll /var/lib/scylla/data/mykeyspace/team_players-6e856600017f11e790f4000000000000/

      drwx------ 5 scylla   scylla     69 Mar  6 08:14 snapshots
      drwx------ 2 scylla   scylla      6 Mar  5 08:40 upload


#. Select the snapshot you want to restore (usually the most recent one) 

   .. code-block:: shell

      /var/lib/scylla/data/keyspace_name/table_name-UUID/snapshots/<snapshot_name>

   For example:

   .. code-block:: shell

      cd /var/lib/scylla/data/mykeyspace/team_players-6e856600017f11e790f4000000000000/snapshots/1487847672222


#. Copy the snapshots directory content to the ``/var/lib/scylla/data/keyspace_name/table_name-UUID/`` directory

   For example:

   .. code-block:: shell

      sudo cp -r * /var/lib/scylla/data/mykeyspace/team_players-6e856600017f11e790f4000000000000

#. If you have incremental backup files, copy them from the **backups** folder ``/var/lib/scylla/data/keyspace_name/table_name-UUID/backups/<backups_name>`` to  the ``/var/lib/scylla/data/keyspace_name/table_name-UUID/`` directory

   For example:

   .. code-block:: shell

      sudo cp -r * /var/lib/scylla/data/mykeyspace/team_players-6e856600017f11e790f4000000000000

#. Make sure that all files are owned by the ``scylla`` user and group:

   .. code-block:: shell

      sudo chown -R scylla:scylla /var/lib/scylla/data/mykeyspace/team_players-6e856600017f11e790f4000000000000

#. Start the node

   .. include:: /rst_include/scylla-commands-start-index.rst

#. Run ``nodetool repair`` command to guarantee that your data is consistent with other nodes.


After performing the above on all nodes, repair the cluster with nodetool repair. This makes sure that the data is consistent on all nodes and between each node.

Commit message:

docs: backup: full backup: clarify procedure
The current documentation doesn't take into account
that scylla automatically describes the table in each snapshot
in a `schema.cql` file, and the standard procedure of restoring
the schema from the system.schema tables.

Also, use the DESCRIBE SCHEMA cql query in the example,
rather than its abbreviation.

Signed-off-by: Benny Halevy <bhalevy@scylladb.com>

docs/operating-scylla/procedures/backup-restore/restore.rst, after:

Restore from a Backup and Incremental Backup
********************************************

Restoring a keyspace from a backup requires all snapshot files of the tables, and (if available) incremental backup files taken after the snapshot. Before restoring from backup, the table data must be truncated, making sure that the existing data does not overwrite the restored data.

.. include:: _common/manager.rst


.. note::

   The following procedure assumes data is restored to the same cluster that was backed-up:

   - same number of nodes
   - same token range per node

   The procedure restores each node using the backup file of the **same node**.
   If this is not the case, one should use other restoration methods tools like :doc:`sstableloader </operating-scylla/procedures/cassandra-to-scylla-migration-process/>`. This procedure is much slower than restoring to the same topology cluster.

   The procedure also assumes that the restored sstables do not contain any deleted or altered columns, allowing to recreate the schema using ``cqlsh``.
   Otherwise, the schema should be restored from the ``system_schema`` keyspace, in the same full-backup snapshot.

.. _restore-procedure:

---------
Procedure
---------

| From **one** of the nodes, recreate the schema.

``cqlsh -e "SOURCE '/path_to_schema/<schema_name.cql>'"``

| For example:

``cqlsh -e "SOURCE 'centos/db_schema.cql'"``

Repeat the following steps for each node in the cluster:
--------------------------------------------------------

.. note::

      Best practise is **not** to restore :doc:`Materialized Views (MV) </using-scylla/materialized-views>` and :doc:`Secondary Indexes (SI) </using-scylla/secondary-indexes>` SSTables.
      It is recommended to:

      - Drop the MV and SI using `DROP MATERIALIZED VIEW` or `DROP INDEX`
      - Restore the base table only (see below)
      - Recreate the  MV or SI, using the original description from the CQL backup, using `CREATE MATERIALIZED VIEW` or `CREATE INDEX`
   

#. Run the :doc:`nodetool drain </operating-scylla/nodetool-commands/drain/>` command to ensure the data is flushed to the SSTables

#. Shut down the node

   .. include:: /rst_include/scylla-commands-stop-index.rst

#. Delete all the files in the commitlog. Deleting the commitlog will prevent the newer insert from overriding the restored data.

   ``sudo rm -rf /var/lib/scylla/commitlog/*``

#. Delete all the files in the keyspace_name_table. Note that by default the snapshots are created under Scylla data directory ``/var/lib/scylla/data/keyspace_name/table_name-UUID/``.

   Make sure NOT to delete the existing snapshots in the process.

   For example:

   .. code-block:: shell

      sudo ll /var/lib/scylla/data/mykeyspace/team_players-6e856600017f11e790f4000000000000

      -rw-r--r-- 1 scylla   scylla     66 Mar  5 09:19 nba-team_players-ka-1-CompressionInfo.db
      -rw-r--r-- 1 scylla   scylla    669 Mar  5 09:19 nba-team_players-ka-1-Data.db
      -rw-r--r-- 4 scylla   scylla     10 Mar  5 08:46 nba-team_players-ka-1-Digest.sha1
      -rw-r--r-- 1 scylla   scylla     24 Mar  5 09:19 nba-team_players-ka-1-Filter.db
      -rw-r--r-- 1 scylla   scylla    218 Mar  5 09:19 nba-team_players-ka-1-Index.db
      -rw-r--r-- 1 scylla   scylla     38 Mar  5 09:19 nba-team_players-ka-1-Scylla.db
      -rw-r--r-- 1 scylla   scylla   4446 Mar  5 09:19 nba-team_players-ka-1-Statistics.db
      -rw-r--r-- 1 scylla   scylla     89 Mar  5 09:19 nba-team_players-ka-1-Summary.db
      -rw-r--r-- 4 scylla   scylla    101 Mar  5 08:46 nba-team_players-ka-1-TOC.txt
      drwx------ 5 scylla   scylla     69 Mar  6 08:14 snapshots
      drwx------ 2 scylla   scylla      6 Mar  5 08:40 upload

      sudo rm -f  /var/lib/scylla/data/mykeyspace/team_players-6e856600017f11e790f4000000000000/*

      rm: cannot remove ‘/var/lib/scylla/data/nba/team_roster-c019f8108fda11e8b16a000000000001/snapshots’: Is a directory
      rm: cannot remove ‘/var/lib/scylla/data/nba/team_roster-c019f8108fda11e8b16a000000000001/upload’: Is a directory

      sudo ll /var/lib/scylla/data/mykeyspace/team_players-6e856600017f11e790f4000000000000/

      drwx------ 5 scylla   scylla     69 Mar  6 08:14 snapshots
      drwx------ 2 scylla   scylla      6 Mar  5 08:40 upload


#. Select the snapshot you want to restore (usually the most recent one) 

   .. code-block:: shell

      /var/lib/scylla/data/keyspace_name/table_name-UUID/snapshots/<snapshot_name>

   For example:

   .. code-block:: shell

      cd /var/lib/scylla/data/mykeyspace/team_players-6e856600017f11e790f4000000000000/snapshots/1487847672222


#. Copy the snapshots directory content to the ``/var/lib/scylla/data/keyspace_name/table_name-UUID/`` directory

   For example:

   .. code-block:: shell

      sudo cp -r * /var/lib/scylla/data/mykeyspace/team_players-6e856600017f11e790f4000000000000

#. If you have incremental backup files, copy them from the **backups** folder ``/var/lib/scylla/data/keyspace_name/table_name-UUID/backups/<backups_name>`` to  the ``/var/lib/scylla/data/keyspace_name/table_name-UUID/`` directory

   For example:

   .. code-block:: shell

      sudo cp -r * /var/lib/scylla/data/mykeyspace/team_players-6e856600017f11e790f4000000000000

#. Make sure that all files are owned by the ``scylla`` user and group:

   .. code-block:: shell

      sudo chown -R scylla:scylla /var/lib/scylla/data/mykeyspace/team_players-6e856600017f11e790f4000000000000

#. Start the node

   .. include:: /rst_include/scylla-commands-start-index.rst

#. Run ``nodetool repair`` command to guarantee that your data is consistent with other nodes.


After performing the above on all nodes, repair the cluster with nodetool repair. This makes sure that the data is consistent on all nodes and between each node.
