docs/protocol-extensions.md, before:

Protocol extensions to the Cassandra Native Protocol
====================================================

This document specifies extensions to the protocol defined
by Cassandra's native_protocol_v4.spec and native_protocol_v5.spec.
The extensions are designed so that a driver supporting them can
continue to interoperate with Cassandra and other compatible servers
with no configuration needed; the driver can discover the extensions
and enable them conditionally.

An extension can be discovered by the client driver by using the OPTIONS
request; the returned SUPPORTED response will have zero or more options
beginning with `SCYLLA` indicating extensions defined in this document, in
addition to options documented by Cassandra. How to use the extension
is further explained in this document.

# Extending protocol extensions support

As mentioned above, in order to use a protocol extension feature by both
server and client, they need to negotiate the used feature set when establishing
a connection.

The negotiation procedure has the following steps:
  - Client sends the OPTIONS request to the Scylla instance to get a list of
    protocol extensions that the server understands.
  - Server sends the SUPPORTED message in reply to the OPTIONS request. The
    message body is a string multimap, in which keys describe different
    extensions and possibly one or more additional values specific to a
    particular extension (specified as distinct values under a feature key in
    the following form: `ARG_NAME=VALUE`).
  - The client determines the set of compatible extensions which it is going
    to use in the current connection by intersecting known capabilities list
    with what it has received in SUPPORTED response.
  - Client driver sends the STARTUP request with additional payload consisting
    of key-value pairs, each describing a negotiated extension.
  - Server determines the set of compatible extensions by intersecting known
    list of protocol extensions with what it has received in STARTUP request.

Both client and server use the same string identifiers for the keys to determine
negotiated extension set, judging by the presence of a particular key in the
SUPPORTED/STARTUP messages.

# Intranode sharding

This extension allows the driver to discover how Scylla internally
partitions data among logical cores. It can then create at least
one connection per logical core, and send queries directly to the
logical core that will serve them, greatly improving load balancing
and efficiency.

To use the extension, send the OPTIONS message. The data is returned
in the SUPPORTED message, as a set of key/value options. Numeric values
are returned as their base-10 ASCII representation.

The keys and values are:
  - `SCYLLA_SHARD` is an integer, the zero-based shard number this connection
    is connected to (for example, `3`).
  - `SCYLLA_NR_SHARDS` is an integer containing the number of shards on this
    node (for example, `12`). All shard numbers are smaller than this number.
  - `SCYLLA_PARTITIONER` is a the fully-qualified name of the partitioner in use (i.e.
    `org.apache.cassandra.partitioners.Murmur3Partitioner`).
  - `SCYLLA_SHARDING_ALGORITHM` is the name of an algorithm used to select how
    partitions are mapped into shards (described below)
  - `SCYLLA_SHARDING_IGNORE_MSB` is an integer parameter to the algorithm (also
    described below)

Currently, one `SCYLLA_SHARDING_ALGORITHM` is defined,
`biased-token-round-robin`. To apply the algorithm,
perform the following steps (assuming infinite-precision arithmetic):

  - subtract the minimum token value from the partition's token
    in order to bias it: `biased_token = token - (-2**63)`
  - shift `biased_token` left by `ignore_msb` bits, discarding any
    bits beyond the 63rd:
      `biased_token = (biased_token << SCYLLA_SHARDING_IGNORE_MSB) % (2**64)`
  - multiply by `SCYLLA_NR_SHARDS` and perform a truncating division by 2**64:
    `shard = (biased_token * SCYLLA_NR_SHARDS) / 2**64`

(this apparently convoluted algorithm replaces a slow division instruction with
a fast multiply instruction).

in C with 128-bit arithmetic support, these operations can be efficiently
performed in three steps:

```c++
    uint64_t biased_token = token + ((uint64_t)1 << 63);
    biased_token <<= ignore_msb;
    int shard = ((unsigned __int128)biased_token * nr_shards) >> 64;
```

In languages without 128-bit arithmetic support, use the following (this example
is for Java):

```Java
    private int scyllaShardOf(long token) {
        token += Long.MIN_VALUE;
        token <<= ignoreMsb;
        long tokLo = token & 0xffffffffL;
        long tokHi = (token >>> 32) & 0xffffffffL;
        long mul1 = tokLo * nrShards;
        long mul2 = tokHi * nrShards;
        long sum = (mul1 >>> 32) + mul2;
        return (int)(sum >>> 32);
    }
```

It is recommended that drivers open connections until they have at
least one connection per shard, then close excess connections.

# LWT prepared statements metadata mark

This extension allows the driver to discover whether LWT statements have a
special bit set in prepared statement metadata flags, which indicates that
the driver currently deals with an LWT statement.

Having a designated flag gives the ability to reliably detect LWT statements
and remove the need to execute custom parsing logic for each query, which is not
only costly but also error-prone (e.g. parsing the prepared query with regular
expressions).

The feature is meant to be further utilized by client drivers to use primary
replicas consistently when dealing with conditional statements.

Choosing primary replicas in a predefined order ensures that in case of multiple
LWT queries that contend on a single key, these queries will queue up at the
replica rather than compete: choose the primary replica first, then, if the
primary is known to be down, the first secondary, then the second secondary, and
so on.
This will reduce contention over hot keys and thus increase LWT performance.

The feature is identified by the `SCYLLA_LWT_ADD_METADATA_MARK` key that is
meant to be sent in the SUPPORTED message along with the following additional
parameters:
  - `SCYLLA_LWT_OPTIMIZATION_META_BIT_MASK` is a 32-bit integer that represents
    the bit mask that should be used by the client to test against when checking
    prepared statement metadata flags to see if the current query is conditional
    or not.

Commit message:

docs: Info about shard-aware listeners in protocol-extensions

docs/protocol-extensions.md, after:

Protocol extensions to the Cassandra Native Protocol
====================================================

This document specifies extensions to the protocol defined
by Cassandra's native_protocol_v4.spec and native_protocol_v5.spec.
The extensions are designed so that a driver supporting them can
continue to interoperate with Cassandra and other compatible servers
with no configuration needed; the driver can discover the extensions
and enable them conditionally.

An extension can be discovered by the client driver by using the OPTIONS
request; the returned SUPPORTED response will have zero or more options
beginning with `SCYLLA` indicating extensions defined in this document, in
addition to options documented by Cassandra. How to use the extension
is further explained in this document.

# Extending protocol extensions support

As mentioned above, in order to use a protocol extension feature by both
server and client, they need to negotiate the used feature set when establishing
a connection.

The negotiation procedure has the following steps:
  - Client sends the OPTIONS request to the Scylla instance to get a list of
    protocol extensions that the server understands.
  - Server sends the SUPPORTED message in reply to the OPTIONS request. The
    message body is a string multimap, in which keys describe different
    extensions and possibly one or more additional values specific to a
    particular extension (specified as distinct values under a feature key in
    the following form: `ARG_NAME=VALUE`).
  - The client determines the set of compatible extensions which it is going
    to use in the current connection by intersecting known capabilities list
    with what it has received in SUPPORTED response.
  - Client driver sends the STARTUP request with additional payload consisting
    of key-value pairs, each describing a negotiated extension.
  - Server determines the set of compatible extensions by intersecting known
    list of protocol extensions with what it has received in STARTUP request.

Both client and server use the same string identifiers for the keys to determine
negotiated extension set, judging by the presence of a particular key in the
SUPPORTED/STARTUP messages.

# Intranode sharding

This extension allows the driver to discover how Scylla internally
partitions data among logical cores. It can then create at least
one connection per logical core, and send queries directly to the
logical core that will serve them, greatly improving load balancing
and efficiency.

To use the extension, send the OPTIONS message. The data is returned
in the SUPPORTED message, as a set of key/value options. Numeric values
are returned as their base-10 ASCII representation.

The keys and values are:
  - `SCYLLA_SHARD` is an integer, the zero-based shard number this connection
    is connected to (for example, `3`).
  - `SCYLLA_NR_SHARDS` is an integer containing the number of shards on this
    node (for example, `12`). All shard numbers are smaller than this number.
  - `SCYLLA_PARTITIONER` is a the fully-qualified name of the partitioner in use (i.e.
    `org.apache.cassandra.partitioners.Murmur3Partitioner`).
  - `SCYLLA_SHARDING_ALGORITHM` is the name of an algorithm used to select how
    partitions are mapped into shards (described below)
  - `SCYLLA_SHARDING_IGNORE_MSB` is an integer parameter to the algorithm (also
    described below)
  - `SCYLLA_SHARD_AWARE_PORT` is an additional port number where Scylla is listening
    for CQL connections. If present, it works almost the same way as port 9042 typically
    does; the difference is that client-side port number is used as an indicator to which
    shard client wants to connect. The desired shard number is calculated as:
    `desired_shard_no = client_port % SCYLLA_NR_SHARDS`. Its value is a decimal
    representation of type `uint16_t`, by default `19042`.
  - `SCYLLA_SHARD_AWARE_PORT_SSL` is an additional port number where Scylla is
    listening for encrypted CQL connections. If present, it works almost the same way
    as port 9142 typically does; the difference is that client-side port number is used
    as an indicator to which shard client wants to connect. The desired shard number
    is calculated as: `desired_shard_no = client_port % SCYLLA_NR_SHARDS`.
    Its value is a decimal representation of type `uint16_t`, by default `19142`.

Currently, one `SCYLLA_SHARDING_ALGORITHM` is defined,
`biased-token-round-robin`. To apply the algorithm,
perform the following steps (assuming infinite-precision arithmetic):

  - subtract the minimum token value from the partition's token
    in order to bias it: `biased_token = token - (-2**63)`
  - shift `biased_token` left by `ignore_msb` bits, discarding any
    bits beyond the 63rd:
      `biased_token = (biased_token << SCYLLA_SHARDING_IGNORE_MSB) % (2**64)`
  - multiply by `SCYLLA_NR_SHARDS` and perform a truncating division by 2**64:
    `shard = (biased_token * SCYLLA_NR_SHARDS) / 2**64`

(this apparently convoluted algorithm replaces a slow division instruction with
a fast multiply instruction).

in C with 128-bit arithmetic support, these operations can be efficiently
performed in three steps:

```c++
    uint64_t biased_token = token + ((uint64_t)1 << 63);
    biased_token <<= ignore_msb;
    int shard = ((unsigned __int128)biased_token * nr_shards) >> 64;
```

In languages without 128-bit arithmetic support, use the following (this example
is for Java):

```Java
    private int scyllaShardOf(long token) {
        token += Long.MIN_VALUE;
        token <<= ignoreMsb;
        long tokLo = token & 0xffffffffL;
        long tokHi = (token >>> 32) & 0xffffffffL;
        long mul1 = tokLo * nrShards;
        long mul2 = tokHi * nrShards;
        long sum = (mul1 >>> 32) + mul2;
        return (int)(sum >>> 32);
    }
```

It is recommended that drivers open connections until they have at
least one connection per shard, then close excess connections.

# LWT prepared statements metadata mark

This extension allows the driver to discover whether LWT statements have a
special bit set in prepared statement metadata flags, which indicates that
the driver currently deals with an LWT statement.

Having a designated flag gives the ability to reliably detect LWT statements
and remove the need to execute custom parsing logic for each query, which is not
only costly but also error-prone (e.g. parsing the prepared query with regular
expressions).

The feature is meant to be further utilized by client drivers to use primary
replicas consistently when dealing with conditional statements.

Choosing primary replicas in a predefined order ensures that in case of multiple
LWT queries that contend on a single key, these queries will queue up at the
replica rather than compete: choose the primary replica first, then, if the
primary is known to be down, the first secondary, then the second secondary, and
so on.
This will reduce contention over hot keys and thus increase LWT performance.

The feature is identified by the `SCYLLA_LWT_ADD_METADATA_MARK` key that is
meant to be sent in the SUPPORTED message along with the following additional
parameters:
  - `SCYLLA_LWT_OPTIMIZATION_META_BIT_MASK` is a 32-bit integer that represents
    the bit mask that should be used by the client to test against when checking
    prepared statement metadata flags to see if the current query is conditional
    or not.
