docs/sstable-scylla-format.md, before:

# File format of the `Scylla.db` sstable component

The `Scylla.db` component (present in a file named like `mc-223-big-Scylla.db`
contains assorted Scylla-only metadata. Its presence indicates the sstable was
created by Scylla (or some Scylla-aware creator). Non-Scylla consumers will ignore it.

The file is small and intended to be processed in-memory.

## Main structure

The main structure is that of an unordered set of subcomponents. Each component
is prefixed with a be32 tag that indicates its type, and its serialized size
(so unknown subcomponents can be skipped).

    scylla_db = subcomponent_count (tag serialized_size subcomponent)*
    subcomponent_count = be32
    serialized_size = be32
    tag = be32

## Subcomponents and tag values

The following subcomponents are recognized. They are described in more detail
in individual sections

    subcomponent = sharding_metadata
        | features
        | extension_attributes
        | run_identifier

`sharding_metadata` (tag 1): describes what token sub-ranges are included in this
sstable. This is used, when loading the sstable, to determine which shard(s)
it occupies.

`features` (tag 2): a set of boolean flags that describe the sstable

`extension_attributes` (tag 3): a map<string, string> with additional attributes

`run_identifier` (tag 4): a uuid that is the same for all sstables in the same run
(and different for sstables in different runs).

## sharding_metadata subcomponent

    sharding_metadata = token_range_count token_range*
    token_range_count = be32
    token_range = left_token_bound right_token_bound
    left_token_bound = token_bound
    right_token_bound = token_bound
    token_bound = exclusive_flag token
    exclusive_flag = byte          // 0=inclusive, 1=exclusive
    token = token_size byte*
    token_size = be16

Sharding metadata is a sorted list of disjoint token ranges. Each token range
consists of a left bound and a right bound; either bound may be inclusive or
exclusive. The tokens are interpreted according to the partitioner.

The sstable contains no partitions whose token is outside the ranges described by
sharding_metadata.

## features subcomponent

    features = be64      // interpreted as a set of bits

bit 0: NonCompoundPIEntries (if set, indicates the sstable was generated by
Scylla with issue #2993 fixed)

bit 1: NonCompoundRangeTombstones (if set, indicates the sstable was generated by
Scylla with issue #2986 fixed)

bit 2: ShadowableTombstones (if set, indicates the sstable was generated by
Scylla with issue #3885 fixed)

bit 3: CorrectStaticCompact (if set, indicates the sstable was generated by
Scylla with issue #4139 fixed)

bit 4: CorrectEmptyCounters (if set, indicates the sstable was generated by
Scylla with issue #4363 fixed)

## extension_attributes subcomponent

    extension_attributes = extension_attribute_count extension_attribute*
    extension_attribute_count = be32
    extension_attribute = extension_attribute_key extension_attribute_value
    extension_attribute_key = string32
    extension_attribute_value = string32
    string32 = string32_size byte*
    string32_size = be32

There are currently no defined attributes.

## run_identifier subcomponent

    run_identifier = uuid
    uuid = uuid_high_bits uuid_low_bits
    uuid_high_bits = be64
    uuid_low_bits = be64

If the run_identifier subcomponent is present, the sstable is part of a run.
All sstables with the same run_identifier belong to the same run. They are
guaranteed to be disjoint (non-overlapping) in their partition keys.

Commit message:

sstables: freeze types nested in collection types in legacy sstables
Some legacy `mc` SSTables (created in Scylla 3.0) may contain incorrect
serialization headers, which don't wrap frozen UDTs nested inside collections
with the FrozenType<...> tag. When reading such SSTable,
Scylla would detect a mismatch between the schema saved in schema
tables (which correctly wraps UDTs in the FrozenType<...> tag) and the schema
from the serialization header (which doesn't have these tags).

SSTables created in Scylla versions 3.1 and above, in particular in
Scylla versions that contain this commit, create correct serialization
headers (which wrap UDTs in the FrozenType<...> tag).

This commit does two things:
1. for all SSTables created after this commit, include a new feature
   flag, CorrectUDTsInCollections, presence of which implies that frozen
   UDTs inside collections have the FrozenType<...> tag.
2. when reading a Scylla SSTable without the feature flag, we assume that UDTs
   nested inside collections are always frozen, even if they don't have
   the tag. This assumption is safe to be made, because at the time of
   this commit, Scylla does not allow non-frozen (multi-cell) types inside
   collections or UDTs, and because of point 1 above.

There is one edge case not covered: if we don't know whether the SSTable
comes from Scylla or from C*. In that case we won't make the assumption
described in 2. Therefore, if we get a mismatch between schema and
serialization headers of a table which we couldn't confirm to come from
Scylla, we will still reject the table. If any user encounters such an
issue (unlikely), we will have to use another solution, e.g. using a
separate tool to rewrite the SSTable.

Fixes #6130.

[avi: adjusted sstable file paths]
(cherry picked from commit 3d811e2f957f4614d6b8dda293eeb7f485a63c68)

docs/sstable-scylla-format.md, after:

# File format of the `Scylla.db` sstable component

The `Scylla.db` component (present in a file named like `mc-223-big-Scylla.db`
contains assorted Scylla-only metadata. Its presence indicates the sstable was
created by Scylla (or some Scylla-aware creator). Non-Scylla consumers will ignore it.

The file is small and intended to be processed in-memory.

## Main structure

The main structure is that of an unordered set of subcomponents. Each component
is prefixed with a be32 tag that indicates its type, and its serialized size
(so unknown subcomponents can be skipped).

    scylla_db = subcomponent_count (tag serialized_size subcomponent)*
    subcomponent_count = be32
    serialized_size = be32
    tag = be32

## Subcomponents and tag values

The following subcomponents are recognized. They are described in more detail
in individual sections

    subcomponent = sharding_metadata
        | features
        | extension_attributes
        | run_identifier

`sharding_metadata` (tag 1): describes what token sub-ranges are included in this
sstable. This is used, when loading the sstable, to determine which shard(s)
it occupies.

`features` (tag 2): a set of boolean flags that describe the sstable

`extension_attributes` (tag 3): a map<string, string> with additional attributes

`run_identifier` (tag 4): a uuid that is the same for all sstables in the same run
(and different for sstables in different runs).

## sharding_metadata subcomponent

    sharding_metadata = token_range_count token_range*
    token_range_count = be32
    token_range = left_token_bound right_token_bound
    left_token_bound = token_bound
    right_token_bound = token_bound
    token_bound = exclusive_flag token
    exclusive_flag = byte          // 0=inclusive, 1=exclusive
    token = token_size byte*
    token_size = be16

Sharding metadata is a sorted list of disjoint token ranges. Each token range
consists of a left bound and a right bound; either bound may be inclusive or
exclusive. The tokens are interpreted according to the partitioner.

The sstable contains no partitions whose token is outside the ranges described by
sharding_metadata.

## features subcomponent

    features = be64      // interpreted as a set of bits

bit 0: NonCompoundPIEntries (if set, indicates the sstable was generated by
Scylla with issue #2993 fixed)

bit 1: NonCompoundRangeTombstones (if set, indicates the sstable was generated by
Scylla with issue #2986 fixed)

bit 2: ShadowableTombstones (if set, indicates the sstable was generated by
Scylla with issue #3885 fixed)

bit 3: CorrectStaticCompact (if set, indicates the sstable was generated by
Scylla with issue #4139 fixed)

bit 4: CorrectEmptyCounters (if set, indicates the sstable was generated by
Scylla with issue #4363 fixed)

bit 5: CorrectUDTsInCollections (if set, indicates that the sstable was generated
by Scylla with issue #6130 fixed)

## extension_attributes subcomponent

    extension_attributes = extension_attribute_count extension_attribute*
    extension_attribute_count = be32
    extension_attribute = extension_attribute_key extension_attribute_value
    extension_attribute_key = string32
    extension_attribute_value = string32
    string32 = string32_size byte*
    string32_size = be32

There are currently no defined attributes.

## run_identifier subcomponent

    run_identifier = uuid
    uuid = uuid_high_bits uuid_low_bits
    uuid_high_bits = be64
    uuid_low_bits = be64

If the run_identifier subcomponent is present, the sstable is part of a run.
All sstables with the same run_identifier belong to the same run. They are
guaranteed to be disjoint (non-overlapping) in their partition keys.
